Okay.
So in this video, I want to look at some of the different properties that we have that have to do with
basically the widths of the flex items.
So I'm going to just keep the same file here, flex basics and work in this file.
And we have a width of 200 pixels, so each one is set to a specific width.
Let's go ahead and make it so we can target each item in the flex box.
So we have item one, two and three.
And the first property I want to look at is called flex shrink.
So let's go ahead and actually first I'll just show you I think I already showed you the default behavior
is just to shrink them all at the same rate.
They're all the same width.
But let's say this item one here, we actually don't want it to shrink.
So we could set flex shrink to zero.
And now if I go and I do that same thing, you'll see that the first one stays where it is.
It stays at that 200 pixels because it has a flex shrink of zero the other to shrink along with it.
And of course, you could put this on all of them.
In fact, you could put this on this item is on all three of these.
So now if I make this smaller, none of them are going to shrink.
So that's flex shrink.
I'm going to remove this here.
The next one I want to look at is flex grow.
So for item two, I'm going to set Flex Grow to, let's say one.
And what that's going to do is fill up the remaining space of the container.
You can see now even if I make this, even if I make this browser super big, you can see it just it
fills up the rest of the space.
These are 200 pixels.
This is going to take up the remaining space.
And you might just set all of them to flex, flex, grow one.
In fact, if I go to item and say flex grow one, then they're all just going to be even.
And this is what you might do in many cases when you have layouts where you might have an icon with
some text and a button custom cards, you might want to just stretch all the way across.
So it's as easy as that.
But I want to show you how you can change the widths of some of these.
So for item three, let's add a flex grow of two.
Now what this is supposed to do is make this one twice the size or width of item two, which is flex
grow one.
And notice that it's not quite twice the size when we're on smaller screens.
And that's because we started with an initial width of 200 pixels.
So the last property I want to show you in kind of this trio is flex basis.
Now flex basis is is kind of like setting the width of the item.
So if we set flex spaces to zero here and here and I save now notice that this is exactly twice the
size of flex one.
Flex two is twice the size of Flex one.
And it doesn't matter if I make this bigger.
You can see they both stretch, but one is twice the size and the other even if we go down to really
small and of course this is still set to flex shrink zero.
So this just stays at 200 pixels no matter what.
Now you might not see these particular properties written out like this very often because we also have
the flex property which implements all three of these.
So up here in the item, let's get rid of the 200 pixels and let's let's comment this out here.
So right now we're back to square one, but let's set the flex property to one.
And just by doing that, it's going to take up the whole width.
Now what this means right now is just flex grow one.
However, we can add shrink end basis as well.
So this can take in three properties or three I should say three values.
So the shrink we can set to zero and then the basis will set to 200 pixels.
So what that's going to do if I save it looks the same.
However, when we get down to 200 pixels, you notice that it doesn't shrink because we have the shrink
set to zero and we have the basis at 200 pixels.
So it's not going to go there, not going to go any smaller than that.
So remember flex is grow, shrink and basis, but a lot of the times you're just going to see like flex
one because you won't need the the shrink or anything like that because a lot of times you'll implement
media queries and you'll have them stack on top of each other anyway.
Now if we wanted to have, let's say, item three.
Larger.
We could do Flex two or we could do even flex three, which is going to be three times the size.
So you can change these up so you can create whatever layout you want.
Now, in the next video, I want to get into alignments so we can if we want to move these down here
or move them this way, if they're in a column, things like that.
So we're going to look at properties like align items and justify content and align self.
So we'll get into those next.